Cons:
GColorChooser became better
Charmap became better (but by far not perfect)
utf-8 support was not quite there yet
Cannot drag and drop a window using the miniature in the pager
su was a pain (quoting and always typing the password), sudo is better
the configuration menus were sometims a bit disorganised, and spread across several "control centers" (Mandrake's, KDE's, ...)
visual bell (I'm sure I saw a config option to disable it, but I cannot find it again!)
font subpixel hinting on my screen is bad (probably just a configuration option that I didn't find yet)
kmail didn't support IMAP

Pros:
kioslaves allowed to view man pages and info pages with hyperlinks and decent formatting
lots of configuration menus
lots of documentation, well translated, with howtos, etc. and it is put forward
ability to change the window manager / desktop environment on the fly, at least for some of them.
nice background pictures in configuration dialogs (e.g. KDE control center, Mozilla Messenger's configuration...)
easy customization of menus, of the task bar, these things have been gradually discarded in "modern" desktop environments.
glade (GUI editor) seemed better at the time (more widgets, more intuitive flow as it was a simple click to create an element inside a container, now you sometimes have to go through some right-click maze for some containers e.g. toolbars) + there seemed to be some extensive support for some database engine, which seems to have disappeared.
browsers actually already supported CSS. My website (which uses a very simple CSS stylesheet, but wasn't designed (to my shame) with the goal of backward-compatibility) looks great on Mozilla, Konqueror and Galeon. The fonts could be antialiased for it to look nicer, and that's it.

Software which disappeared:
arts-builder (nice & fun synthesizer)
khexedit
xtraceroute, doesn't exist anymore

What is compatible:
X display (new applications are mostly compatible with old XFree86, not the other way round: old applications hang when connecting to new X server)
Sound (with osspd)

What is *not* compatible:
CPU usage (it seems the API for that in /proc changed a bit)
arts-builder (possibly because it checks for its CPU usage)


Staroffice:
+ full-featured
+ well engineered:
  e.g. connectors between objects
  -> Some functions are already present in menus, have an icon, but are greyed out.
     The feature is actually implemented and can be done by using another menu entry with default settings (e.g. the default connector) then changing it with right-click properties
     This means that the product achitecture was thought in advance and dispatched to several people/tasks (icon creators, create the menu entries, implement the functionality, connect the menu entry to said functionality),
     and only the last one didn't get implmented in time to make it into the release. This is in contrast with the approach of implementing things "on the fly"
+ the guidelines when creating a new presentation. Cute & nice.
- right-click -> personalize on menus is slightly more confusing than in Office 97
- templates in impress: there's a preview when creating a new presentation, but not when changing the template for a single slide
- a few lists for selecting things (font, ...) are a bit too small to be practical, and their containing window cannot be resized.